.. _release:

Release Process
===============

This is a guide to the process of creating a new release, and is meant for the maintainers of Raster Vision.

.. note:: The following instructions assume that Python 3 is the default Python on your local system. Using Python 2 will not work.

Minor or Major Version Release
-------------------------------

#. It's a good idea to update any major dependencies before the release.
#. Fix any broken badges on the Github repo readme.
#. Update the docs to reflect all changes since last release. You can view a local copy of the docs by running ``docker/run --docs`` and then viewing ``localhost:8000``.
#. Update ``tiny_spacenet.py`` if needed and copy its contents to the index, Quickstart, and Github repo readme.
#. Update :ref:`changelog`, and point out config API changes.
#. Test out :ref:`setup` and :ref:`quickstart` instructions and make sure they work.
#. Test examples from :ref:`pipelines plugins`, :ref:`bootstrap`, and :ref:`cloudformation setup`.

    .. code-block:: terminal

        rastervision run inprocess rastervision.pipeline_example_plugin1.config1 -a root_uri /opt/data/pipeline-example/1/ -s 2
        rastervision run inprocess rastervision.pipeline_example_plugin1.config2 -a root_uri /opt/data/pipeline-example/2/ -s 2
        rastervision run inprocess rastervision.pipeline_example_plugin2.config3 -a root_uri /opt/data/pipeline-example/3/ -s 2

    .. code-block:: terminal

        cookiecutter /Users/lfishgold/projects/raster-vision/cookiecutter_template

#. Run all :ref:`rv examples` and check that evaluation metrics are close to the scores from the last release. (For each example, there should be a link to a JSON file with the evaluation metrics from the last release.) This stage often uncovers bugs, and is the most time consuming part of the release process. There is a script to help run the examples and collect their output in ``rastervision.pytorch_backend.examples.test``. There are the following subcommands: ``run`` to run sets of examples remotely or locally, ``collect`` to download certain files generated by running examples to aide inspection, and ``predict`` to run the predict command on example model bundles. To use this script, you will need to follow certain conventions around file organization which will be apparent in the ``cfg`` dictionary in the source code for ``test.py``.
#. Collect all model bundles, and check that they work with the ``predict`` command and sanity check output in QGIS.
#. Update the :ref:`model zoo` by uploading model bundles and sample images to the right place on S3. If you use the ``collect`` command (described above), you should be able to sync the ``collect_dir`` to ``s3://azavea-research-public-data/raster-vision/examples/model-zoo-<version>``.
#. Update the version number. This occurs in many, many places, so it's best to do this with a find and replace over the entire repo.
#. Make a PR to the ``master`` branch with the preceding updates. In the PR, there should be a link to preview the docs. Check that they are building and look correct.
#. Make a git branch with the version as the name, and push to Github.
#. Ensure that the docs are building correctly for the new version branch on `readthedocs <https://readthedocs.org/projects/raster-vision/>`_. You will need to have admin access on your RTD account. Once the branch is building successfully, Under Versions -> Activate a Version, you can activate the version to add it to the sidebar of the docs for the latest version. (This might require manually triggering a rebuild of the docs.) Then, under Admin -> Advanced Settings, change the default version to the new version.
#. Travis CI is supposed to publish an image whenever there is a push to a branch with a version number as the name. If this doesn't work or you want to publish it immediately, then you can manually make a Docker image for the new version and push to Quay. For this you will need an account on Quay.io under the Azavea organization.

    .. code-block:: terminal

        ./docker/build
        docker login quay.io
        docker tag raster-vision-pytorch:latest quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-<version>
        docker push quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-<version>

#. Make a Github `tag <https://github.com/azavea/raster-vision/tags>`_ and `release <https://github.com/azavea/raster-vision/releases>`_ using the previous release as a template.
#. Publish all packages to PyPI. This step requires ``twine`` which you can install with ``pip install twine``. To store settings for PyPI you can setup a ``~/.pypirc`` file containing:

    .. code-block:: terminal

        [pypi]
        username = azavea

    Once packages are published they cannot be changed so be careful. (It's possible to practice using testpypi.) Navigate to the ``raster-vision`` repo on your local filesystem. With the version branch checked out, run something like the following to publish each plugin, and then the top-level package.

    .. code-block:: terminal

        export RV="/Users/lfishgold/projects/raster-vision"

        cd $RV/rastervision_pipeline
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_aws_batch
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_aws_s3
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_core
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_pytorch_learner
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_pytorch_backend
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV/rastervision_gdal_vsi
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

        cd $RV
        python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
        twine upload dist/*

#. Announce new release on Gitter, and with blog post if it's a big release.

Bug Fix Release
-----------------

This describes how to create a new bug fix release, using incrementing from 0.8.0 to 0.8.1 as an example. This assumes that there is already a branch for a minor release called ``0.8``.

#. To create a bug fix release (version 0.8.1), we need to backport all the bug fix commits on the ``master`` branch that have been added since the last bug fix release onto the ``0.8`` branch. For each bug fix PR on ``master``, we need to create a PR against the ``0.8`` branch based on a branch of ``0.8`` that has cherry-picked the commits from the original PR. The title of the PR should start with [BACKPORT].
#. Make and merge a PR against ``0.8`` (but not ``master``) that increments the version in each ``setup.py`` file to ``0.8.1``. Then wait for the ``0.8`` branch to be built by Travis and the ``0.8`` Docker images to be published to Quay. If that is successful, we can proceed to the next steps of actually publishing a release.
#. Using the Github UI, make a new release. Use ``0.8.1`` as the tag, and the ``0.8`` branch as the target.
#. The image for ``0.8`` is created automatically by Travis, but we need to manually create images for ``0.8.1``. For this you will need an account on Quay  under the Azavea organization.

    .. code-block:: terminal

        docker login quay.io

        docker pull quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-0.8
        docker tag quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-0.8 quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-0.8.1
        docker push quay.io/azavea/raster-vision:pytorch-0.8.1

#. Publish the new version to PyPI. Follow the same instructions for PyPI that are listed above for minor/major version releases.
